Feast integration WIP (#1163)
hazelcast/hz-docs: docs/modules/integrate/pages/integrate-with-feast.adoc

= Integrate with Feast
:page-enterprise: true
:description: pass:q[Feast (**Fea**ture **St**ore) is a customizable operational data system, which uses your existing infratstructure to manage and serve machine learning features to real-time models. When integrated with Hazelcast, you can benefit from an online store that supports materializing feature values in a running Hazelcast cluster.]

{description}

This approach unlocks the following to power your Feast real-world machine learning (ML) requirements:

* One-to-one mapping of each feature view to a specific IMap data structure
+

> This means that every feature view corresponds to an IMap in the Hazelcast cluster, and the entries in that IMap correspond to features of entitites. Each feature value is stored separately, and can be retrieved individually.

Reviewer: This paragraph sounds like the user is able to use their pre-existing IMaps and the entries in those with Feast. That's not the case. Feast creates a new IMap for each feature, and the user has no control over the entries in those IMaps.

When creating a Feast project, you can define one or more feature views. A feature view is an object that represents a logical group of time-series feature data from the provided raw underlying data, which is known as the data source. If related to a specific object, the feature view has one or more entities. 

An entity is a collection of semantically related features. Each entity in a feature store consists of the entity name and an associated value, known as a join key. The name uniquely identifies the entity, and the join key identifies the physical primary key on which feature values are joined during retrieval. 

With Feast, you use the following in your ML models:

* Historical data to support predictions that allow scaling to improve model performance
* Real-time data to support data-driven insights
* Pre-computed features that can be served online

For further information on Feast, refer to the link:https://docs.feast.dev/v/master[Feast, window=_blank] documentation.

== Why Integrate with Hazelcast?

Feast supports the following:

* Batch feature creation. The data in the batch - or offline - store can be transformed, for example, using SQL

> * Stream feature creation. Streaming services, such as Kafka, supply the data from which stream features are created

Reviewer: We temporarily have to remove this line for 5.5 release, until an issue about using the grpc server for streaming features is resolved.

* Load data from the offline store to the online store through materialization

Integrating Feast with Hazelcast allows you to do the following:

* Use a Hazelcast cluster for your online data store. An IMap in the cluster contains the feature values, identified by the project and feature view names. You can push data to, and retrieve data from, the IMap to provide a real-time online store

> * Connect a gRPC server to stream data. This avoids the need for a temporary IMap sink, provides a real-time solution, and ensures that your data is formatted as expected

Reviewer: We temporarily have to remove this line for 5.5 release, until an issue about using the grpc server for streaming features is resolved.

> * Connect a gRPC server to stream data. This avoids the need for a temporary IMap sink, provides a real-time solution, and ensures that your data is formatted as expected

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Connect a Feast feature server to stream data. This provides a real-time solution, and ensures that your features are always fresh.
```
